                         Exploring The system
Now that we know how to move around the file system,it's time for a guided 
tour of our Linux system.Before we start however,we're going to learn some 
more command that will be useful along the way.
  The ls command is propbably the most used command,and for good reason.
With it we can see dircetory contents and determine a variety of important 
file and directory attributes(属性).As we have seen,we can simply type ls 
to see a list of file and subdirectories(子目录),contained in the current 
working directory.
 --------option and argument 
This brings us to a very important point about how most commands work.Comman-ds are often followed by one or more options that modify(修改)their behavio-r,and further,by one or more arguments,the items(项目) upon which the comma-nd acts.So most commands look kind of like this:
        command -option arguments
Most command use options consisting of a single character preceded(领先，在..之前) by a dash(破折号),for example,"-l",but many commands,including those 
from the GNU Project,also support long options,consisting of a word precededby two dashes.Also,many commands allow multiple(位数,许多)short  options,to
be strung(串,捆)together.In this example,the ls command is given two optionsthe "l" option to produce long format output,and the "t" option to sort(分类排序)the result by the file's modification time.
#---------determining a file's type with file
  As we explore the system it will be useful to know what files contian.To
do this we will use the file command to determine a file'e type.As we 
discussed earlier,filenames in Linux are not required to reflect a file's 
contents.While a filename like "picture.jpg" would normally be expected to 
contain a JPEG compressed(压缩的) image,it is not required to in Linux.We 
can invoke the file command this way :
  ------file filename
There are many kinds of files.In fact,one of the common ideas in Unix-like 
operating systems such as Linux is that "everything is a file."As we proceed(进行) with our lessons,we will see just how true that statment is.
  While many of the files on your system are familiar, for exmaple MP3 and
JPEG,there are many kinds that are a little less obvious and a few that are quit strange.
#---------Viewing File Contents With Less
The less command is a program to view text files.Throughout our Linux systemthere are many files that contain human-readable text.The less program 
provides a convenient way to examine(检查) them.
                         What Is "Text"
 There are many ways to represent information on a computer.All methods invo-lve defining a relationship between the information and some numbers that
 will be used to represent it.Computers after all, only understand numbers 
and all data is converted to numberic representation.(数值表示法)
   在计算机里，有许多方法可以表达信息。所有的方法都涉及到，在信息与一些数字
之间确立一种关系，而这些数字可以用来表达信息。毕竟，计算机只能理解数字，这样所有的数据都被转换成数值表示法。
  Some of these representation systems are very complex(such as compressed 
  video files),while others are rather simple.One of the earliest and simple-st is called ASCII text. ASCII (pronounced"AS-Key")is short for American 
Standard Code for Information Interchange(交换,互换).This is a simple encodi-ng scheme(编码方法)that was first used on Teletype machaines to map(映射)
keyboard characters to numbers.
   Text is a simple one-to-one mapping of characters to numbers.It is very 
compact(紧凑).Fifty characters of text translates to fifty bytes fo data.It
is important to understand that text only contains a simple mapping of 
character to numbers.It is not the same as a word processor(处理器)document
such as one created by Microsoft Word or OpenOffice.org Writer.Those files,
in contrast(与～对比)to simple ASCII text,contain many non-text elements(元素)that are used to describe its structure(结构,构成) and formatting.Plain
ASCII text files contain only the characters themselves and a few rudimentar-y(基本的) control codes like tabs,carriage returns(回车符) and line feeds(换行符).Throughout a Linux system,many files are stored in text format and 
there are many Linux tools that work with text files.Even Windows recognizesthe importance of this format.The well-known NOTEPAD.EXE program is an 
editor for plain ASCII text files.
  文本是简单的字符与数字之间的一一映射。它非常紧凑。五十字符的文本翻译成五十字节的数据。文本只是包含简单的字符到数字的映射，理解这点很重要。它和一些文字处理器文档和一样，比如说由微软和OpenOffice.org文档编辑器创建的文件。这些文件，和简单的ASCII文件，只包含字符本身，和一些基本的控制符，像制表 符，回车符及换行符。纵观Linux系统，许多文件以文件格式存储，也有许多Linux工具来处理文本文件。甚至Windows也承认这种文件格式的重要性。著名的NOTEPAD.EXE程序就是一个ASCII文本编辑器。
  Why would we want to examine text files?Because many of the files that 
contain system settings(called configuration files)are stored in this formatand being able to read them gives us insight about how the system works.In
addition,many of the actual programs that the system uses (called scripts)
are stored in this format.In later chapters,we will learn how to edit text
files in order to modify systems settings and write our own scripts,but for
nor we will just look at their contents.
The less command is used like this :
---------less filename 
Once started ,the less program allows you to scroll forward and backward
through a text file.For examale ,to examine the file that defines all the system's user accounts,enter following command:
---------less /etc/passwd
 一旦运行起来，less程序允许你前后滚动文件。例如，要查看一个定义了系统中全部
 用户身份的文件，输入以下命令：
 Once the less program starts,we may view the contents fo the file.If the 
 file is longer than one page,we can scroll up and down.To exit less,press
 the "q"key.The table below lists the most common keyboard commands used by
 less.
# ----------Less is more(禅语：色即是空 )
The less program was designed as an improved replacement of an earlier Unix
program called more.The name "less" is a play on the phrase(习语)"less is more"--a motto of modernist architects(建筑师) and designers.
